welcome again to bake your way kitchen
on today's video I'm going to show you
how to make a tomato soup a nice fresh
tomato soup great for the summer great
quite frankly all year round it's just a
great great delicious recipe and it's so
easy to make so I'm just going to show
you what you need to get started so what
I've got here is a large saucepan and
I've got about three to two to three
tablespoons of oil and they're going to
preheat the oil and put the onions in a
bit but before I get to that let's get
to the tomatoes yes for this soup we are
using fresh tomatoes so you'll probably
need about two pounds worth and I've got
a mixture of things here so I've got
regular Tomatoes I think I've got two or
three here and then I've got about 200
grams of cherry tomatoes and basically I
put a little bit of olive oil and a
little bit of vinegar and it really
brings out that tomato flavor you'll
need to pre-heat your oven to about 400
degrees and then and then take and then
cut your Tomatoes accordingly if they're
cherry tomatoes obviously you don't need
to cut them and they're going to go into
the oven which I will do right now for
about I would say probably about 20
minutes so I'm going to put this in
sorry
so to make sure that goes in properly
all right so now in the meantime I've
got my oil here as I mentioned I'm going
to go over to the stove preheat the oil
then add in the onions and let them
saute till the till they start to sweat
out a bit and I'll show you the next
step the onions
they've caramelize they've really
sweated out you can see usually once
they're really glassy that's a really
good indicator so now what we're going
to do is add in our garlic you want to
put it near the end of the major like
when you're cooking over high heat your
your onions because you don't want the
garlic garlic has a tendency
so you really want to make avoid that so
you want to get this a mix for 20 30
seconds just so that barrel it kind of
get some used a little bit so now we're
going to be adding in a few additional
ingredients and I will show you that
right now the first thing I'm going to
add is about one and a half cups of
stock now you could use chicken stock
I'm using vegetable stock to keep this
vegetarian I'm also going to add in some
peeled tomatoes this is a 28 fluid ounce
796 milliliters can so you want to get
this in this wouldn't fully open some
kind of doing this on its side so you
want to give this a little bit of a mix
we want to give this a little bit of
salt and pepper and if your roasted
tomatoes are out of the oven if it's
been 20 minutes 25 minutes then just
leave them on the side we'll use them in
a bit on a little bit more salt
I don't lie a lot there we go so we're
going to give this a quick mix and one
thing I'm going to do I always do with
the canned tomatoes I'm just gonna I
always take a little bit of water to get
out all those tomato juices they're
perfectly good there we go so now we're
going to let this come up to a boil once
it's come up to a boil I'm going to
reduce the heat and cover it for about
ten or fifteen minutes and this will
allow some of the excess of liquid to
evaporate and at that point we will put
in the roasted tomatoes but I'll show
you first what that looks like when it
comes to the boil and then when and then
after it's been covered so I'll be back
in just a second it's come to a boil so
now what we're going to do is reduce the
heat and I'm also going to add in some
fresh basil leaves if you don't have
fresh basil leaves first of all you can
use sweet Italian red whatever it is you
want I'm using about a third of a cup
you
use more or less I actually a growing
basil outside in the garden and so it
smells phenomenal I'm telling you if you
can get your hands on fresh basil it
really will take this soup from here to
way up here and one of the great things
about this tomato soup that we're making
it's quite it's perfect for even like a
sauce for like spaghetti or something so
I'm going to have a baked pasta video
coming up and you can easily use this
recipe as a substitute anyway I'm just
going to cover this now and it's on
medium so we're going to let this simmer
for about 10 to 15 minutes and you'll
notice that will thicken up a bit and
I'll show you the next step alright as
you can see I'll try to show you our
tomatoes have been simmering for quite a
while there's been some liquid that's
evaporated but it's there's still going
to be some now my tomatoes are ready
I've got my tomatoes here and I'm just
going to add them in whoops there we go
so now what we're going to do is we're
going to quickly get the salt mix
together first of all we are going to
continue over medium heat if it's on low
you can bring it up to medium and we're
going to let this cook you can either do
it covered or uncovered if you feel like
it's very runny you can cover it if you
prefer for about five or ten minutes
just so that it comes up to a bit of a
simmer and then we are going to go ahead
and use the immersion blender now just
before we get there I just want to be
careful if you're using an immersion
blender be very careful make sure you
have high sides because if you're not
careful it could splatter everywhere and
the absolute worst thing in the world is
when tomatoes splatter all over your
kitchen it's a mess
and it's it's such a disaster so try to
avoid that so I'm going to go off camera
but I'll be back when we blend it all
together so I've left that cook for a
little while I covered it and it's
looking great it's thickened up a bit
it's got an amazing tomato smell now
here's the thing normally actually
there's a few options normally you can
you can either just blend this as is or
you could go and Nick pick out the basil
leaves I personally don't mind the basil
leaves left in it's up to you you can
take them out if you want I'm going to
leave mine in so this is the part we
need to be very careful about and I am
just praying to God that this doesn't go
everywhere so basically you take your
immersion blender if you don't have an
immersion blender you can use a food
processor and we're going to slowly go
like this just around and as you do more
you can mix it longer but just for the
beginning be careful
and you just want to keep mixing around
it'll take a few minutes so I'll show
you what it looks like once it's done
pureed through now if you really want a
nice smooth cream of tomato soup or
tomato soup you can put it through a
sieve and I don't usually do that
because I don't mind if it's a little
grainy but some people are very
sensitive with the seeds and if that's
you that's absolutely fine you can just
take the extra time to strain it to make
sure you get all that out don't want it
but the final step I've preheated the
stuff a little bit I'm adding in about a
tablespoon or so of parmesan you could
add a little more a little less when you
want now you could add about you could
add a little bit of whipping cream but
what I'm going to do is add a couple
tablespoons butter and a little dash of
milk and this will make it a little bit
creamy we go there we go now once you've
mixed this in we are going to adjust it
for seasoning so I'm going to take a
taste all right let's see how it's like
oh it's hot
mmm that is very good that is very good
it's got its so it's got this nice
tomato flavor and I'm telling you using
real Tomatoes using good canned tomatoes
using very good ingredients will make a
huge difference
I am they'll going to add a little bit
more salt and I'm probably going to add
a little bit more pepper and I think
that's going to be perfect so what do
you do now well it's up to you you can
serve it as is or you can serve it with
some crunchy bread or with croutons you
can make this with a pasta dish it's
really up to you
I hope you enjoyed this recipe thanks
for watching and I'll see you in the
next video